--- 
title: Fedora upgrade vs. Kubuntu installation fun
sections: 
- english
- sysadm
tags: 
- erlebtes
- unix
filter: 
- textile
description: Fedora vs. Kubuntu upgrade/installation shootout.
blog_post: true
layout: post
created_at: 2006-10-30 12:09:47.526917 +01:00
---

So <a href="http://fedora.redhat.com/">Fedora Core 6</a> and (<a href="http://www.kubuntu.com">K</a>)<a href="http://www.ubuntu.com">Ubuntu</a> 6.10 were almost released at the same time last week. First, I tried to upgrade Fedora which failed because of some  package dependencies yum couldn't resolve. I have never done a Fedora Update without any hassle. It's quite annoying. I wanted to switch back to a Debian based system anyway so I decided to give Kubuntu a try (I'm more a KDE user than a Gnome user, hence the K).

I downloaded the Live-CD image, burned it, booted off it and tried to install... realizing the main reason why I'm using Fedora right now: The ability to seamlessly install on a Software RAID / LVM setup. Ubuntu doesn't support that out of the box. It may be possible with some teawking and stuff... but I'm tired of all that. I did enough RAID / LVM installations manually back in the day using Debian, Gentoo and whatnot. It was fun, it worked, but I'm lazy now and I want to have some nice installer do all that for me. Fedora does exactly that (but yum just isn't as good as apt). Example (And I don't have any fancy external repos configured... at least not many ;) - anyway yum should be able to handle that):
<pre>Error: Unable to satisfy dependencies
Error: Package elfutils-libs conflicts with elfutils < 0.123-1.fc6.
Error: Package elfutils needs elfutils-libelf = 0.119-1.2.1, this is not available.
Error: Package elfutils-libelf conflicts with elfutils < 0.123-1.fc6.
Error: Package cyrus-sasl-plain needs cyrus-sasl-lib = 2.1.21-10, this is not available.
Error: Package hal conflicts with kernel < 2.6.17.
Error: Package autofs conflicts with kernel < 2.6.17.
Error: Package openoffice.org-core needs libicui18n.so.34, this is not available.
Error: Package openoffice.org-core needs libicule.so.34, this is not available.
Error: Package openoffice.org-core needs libgcjawt.so.7, this is not available.
Error: Package openoffice.org-core needs libicuuc.so.34, this is not available.
Error: Package elfutils needs libdw.so.1(ELFUTILS_0.119), this is not available.
Error: Package openoffice.org-core needs libgcj.so.7, this is not available.
Error: Package elfutils needs elfutils-libs = 0.119-1.2.1, this is not available.</pre>
And yum is just f-in' slow compared to apt in terms of resolving dependencies and installation/upgrade of new packages in general. So basically <a href="http://www.thisisbroken.com/">it's broken</a>.
So I did what I did when I updated Fedora the last time: I downloaded the DVD Image, burned it, booted off the DVD and said "Upgrade". That worked quite well and after another "yum update" everything was fine. To bad that a simple "apt-get update && apt-get dist-upgrade" would have done the same thing on a Debian based system without problems... I'm quite sure.

So being lazy on one side means having to work more on the other one... Whatever. I'm running Fedora Core 6 now and a nice thing I noticed are these anti-aliased fonts. Somehow I didn't have anti-aliasing activated... Now I have and it looks quite nice. The Monospace font in "Konsole" is nice to look at, too.</pre>
